Computer Vision Task

---->This project was done as a part of a set of projects given by the AI and ML club of IIT Ropar.


Considering the fact that this was my first Machine Learning project, I first looked up online for codes for similar tasks. Another helping factor was
Tensorflow.org’s guide on working on the MNIST dataset using Keras api for Tensorflow which I finally decided to use for writing my code.
The next step was to figure out a way to extract the training and testing set images for further processing.Fortunately Keras has the
ImageDataGenerator class for the same purpose.It also enabled me to perform image augmentation on the training data.
Following this was the creation of a model to train the neural network. For this purpose I used two Conv2D layers, each one followed with a
maxpooling2D layer. 
Then a dense layer with relu activation and then a final dense layer with softmax activation giving an output of shape (None,5)
representing the probability values for the 5 classes.
I tried experimenting with adding a dropout layer after the convolutional layers but it had no impact on training accuracy, so it was left out.
Then the model was configured for training using model.compile() function from the tf.keras.model class. The loss type used was
categorical_crossentropy loss,because this was a multiclass classification task, and the rmsprop optimiser was used with the metric parameter being
accuracy.
The model was then finally trained and the final validation accuracy after 30 epochs was around 79% with the training accuracy being 71%.(This was of course obtained after experimenting around with different parameters).
Finally the predictions on the test set were made using model.predict_generator() function and stored in a csv file.

Download the-

a)Training dataset-https://drive.google.com/file/d/137KydXD3ARd0fJd7PZxcNAt3mFROe66Y/view?usp=sharing

b)Test dataset-https://drive.google.com/file/d/137KydXD3ARd0fJd7PZxcNAt3mFROe66Y/view?usp=sharing